Associate Editor

This paper takes a novel direction in the HRT research with
a clear overall presentation. However, the author should
consider what reviewer 4 pointed out regarding statistical
analysis.



Reviewer 1 of ROMAN 2021 submission 276

Comments to the author
======================

Summary: The paper introduces simple cognitive tests for
measuring inherent variations in human capabilities related
to human-robot teaming (HRT). A small user study is
performed to test the correlation between the pretests and
related HRT tasks.

Strengths:

1) The paper was clearly written and overall a fun read.
The ideas, research question, contributions and the
experimental results are all well explained. 

2) The paper's research question is well motivated and it
is of interest to the HRI community.

3) This work seems to take a novel direction in developing
metrics to test the variations between different humans in
HRT tasks. 

Weaknesses:

1) I think the sample size in the user study is rather
small. There are only 10 participants in each condition.
Since the experiment in simulation, I think it should be
easier to recruit more people, which should strength of the
findings.

2) I would like to see the next step of this experiment.
After finding the correlation between pretests and HRT
tasks, how can they be used for improving performance in
HRT tasks with different humans? A user study on this would
definitely put this paper in an award category.

3) The correlation results for H4 are a little high
(0.369). A small change in correlation can easily change
the findings for H4. Given the small sample size, this can
happen possibly by a single participant performing well on
this task. I think this hypothesis needs further
evaluation. 



Reviewer 4 of ROMAN 2021 submission 276

Comments to the author
======================

The number of data points used for fitting are not enough.
In some cases, only 8 points are used to derive statistical
conclusion. If you're using few number of data points, then
error on each data point should be considered in your
fitting. One way to estimate error per data point is to
calculate the mean and standard deviation of each score and
assign standard deviation as the error. 
Additionally, there are inconsistencies with the user score
distributions. Please check the attached figures. As you
see, your distributions not identically distributed. This
means you can not compare results obtained from these
distributions. 
To fix these issues, much more data points need to be
obtained for each test. Only 8 to 10 data points are not
enough to make the claims in your paper. If the users are
only taking certain pairs of pretest and practical test,
then you need to show that the distributions are
independent and identically distributed with users taking
other pairs of tests. 
Additionally, I'm not convinced that situational awareness
has no correlation with creating ad-hoc network. Or that
network connectivity test has no correlation with
controlling multiple robots. Again, this can be shown if
you have more data points and you show that the data points
are i.i.d.